---
title: "Lessons Learned from the Long Run: My Journey of 1562 Runs and 18270 km"
date: "2023-05-14"
---

# Lessons Learned from the Long Run: My Journey of 1562 Runs and 18270 km

## Part I: The Start of the Journey

- Introduction to your running journey.
  I started runnning when I first had my first girlfriend. She was not nearly as sportive as my, or at least- this is what I thought. We went for a run once and she challenged me for a race. The distance was about 2km in a park. I was very proud and certain that I will win against her. After all she was just a little sweet girl I was too much in love with at that time. I lost her after 5 minutes. I could not run anymore . At that time I was going to the gym 5 times per week trying to tain as much weight as humanly possible, even trying to dirnk pure milk and to gain muscle by doing crazy workouts every other day. Then it got to meme. I was super angry that I could beat this little girl in running. And after this park run new challenge Ideas came to my head. I wanted to run 10 kilometers. Just do the distance. I remember as a kid I was always the worst runner and so I had a long way to go. So What I did in the beginning was to just try to run every other day and to increase the distance.

My sister at this time was already into endurance sports, I do not know if she was watching more races than she was trying to do herself but she was always ambitous with a big drive. She told me; taunttaunting me -- alex! There is an adidas race for 10 kilometers in prater (which is by the way the best place to run if you are living in vienna). I was in the beginning feeeling a bit doubtful but then I had a good idea! Basically I thought to myself I need to runbelow or equal to 50 minutes. It i is a good first goal. That is what I thought to myself. Meanwhile I was able to run up to 18 kilometers with my run as long as humanly possible foevery other day. -strategy. This was my naive method. It turned out that the adidas people were very welcoming to new people and even had a a running club where one could join their runs and have fun after that. Imet them abefore the run. At the day of the run I remember that I achieved my goal and felt really good.

- Share any challenges you faced when you started.

Challenges during running are manyfold: The hea. If you are not dressed appropriately then the heat can really destroy you and demotivate you because you are much slower than you usually would be. I remember that I started my running journey in spring which and in vienna it can happen that the spring is really hot. That means that you will die if you tell yourself that you will run a given time, which is actually a really good strategy to get better. Not eating enough is another challenge, running burns about kg \* weight calories and this is a massive amount if you weigh 100 kilos like me at that time. Many times, I was so hungry and thrist when I arrived home that the most bland or boring food tastes like the present of goddess gaia. Another challenge is that you know that people in high school were better than you without even training anything for this sport. You can obviously tell yourself that you can lift more but that does not change the fact that there are so many better people in running than you and your are constantly thinking "Why am I even doing this?"

## Part II: Building Discipline and Consistency

The importance of consistency in running is ofof utmost importance , so my strategy is to n i is to think about running like brushing my theeth. If I do not run it is the same as not brushing my eeth there rarely exist days were not running is really an option. My strategies for maintaining a regular runnning schedule are non existent because I am a 99% disciplined individual I . If I say something I will most probably do it because otherwise I know that I will feeel bad about saying it in the first. I am sure that discpline and the pain of thinking how I would not keep my world lpayed bigger role in my motivation ALWAYS than the motivation for the run itself. Running is pain but the feeling afterwards that the gfood and the drinks give you is priceless. I am sure that even Iif I was ery rich or very accomplished I would still like the first bite of bread of the first taste of water after a run.

## Part III: Physical Changes and Health Benefits

Physical changes and health benefits of running are amazing first of all I lost a lot of muscle that is the truth my hypertrophic friends But you gain the ability to run for very long distances which will benefirt you more yhen you think. I l wnet form 105 kilos down to about 87 kilos without changing my diet much. My diet was also extremely important in improving my running skills be ause I started to et much more carbohydrates which made me in turn want to do more and move more. Which I think is a good thing. Generally my resting heart rate went down and I became a more calm person. My ftness levels improved a lot In the beginning I was not able to run 2kms but then after a few months of training I was able to run a half marathon. I rememebr this feeling like the first day it was really amazing. And I rememebr that I stopped in an absolutely boring place but still managed to run the distance.

## Part IV: Mental Strength and Resilience

Mental strength in running is paramount. You have no idea how strong you can be before trying somethings. Sometimes is also about how you can go a little bit more or a little bit fast er or longer. The question really boils down to how bad do you really want it? That is the question that is posed all the time during running. When I run and I am on my limit I begin to kind of have a self-dialogue and I tell myself, you are doing great even though every part of my body is screaming stop, stop this crazy thing why are you doing this to me. I am telling myself, you are doing so great just push a little more, just a little more. Then I can usually endure things a little longer, even tough I am already onthe brink of dying. Also, aanother thing that helps me to push further is to think of my friends and family or even my enemies laughin at me when I stop . This negative thoughts also help me to push further. In consequence, in real life I sometimes think to myself, when I am really down .. man you already ran two marathons and achieves so many goals with running... what are you scared what do you think you cannot achieve?

## Part V: Highlights and Milestones

The most memorable runs of milestones from my journey were as follows: Definitely my first my first 10k race where I ran below 50 minutes I think it was 49 minutes or something similar. After that I had a very ncie half marathon, were I learned about varying my runs, like doing long runs, interval runs, normal paced runs and so on. And I was able to run for the half marathon4:40 pace I do not. Then my next interestrae was a maratho, so I really tried to increase the distances, this was using the guidance of the adidas community at that thime and. I was able to run my first marathon in vienna, it was really the most horrible and painful race I remember. Basically this day was extremely hot and I started a bit too fast. My goal was to run below 3h 30minutes and I did 3hours and 45 minutes. Suffering through the last minutes, where the ex-boyfriend of my sister helped me end the race. I was still happy to achieve it. But after that I got hungry, this was the first real blocker in my running career and I decided to tackle the 3:30 goal again in berlin. This time I felt amazing and I had a really good race up to the last kilometer where I again felt too hot. I remember finishing in 3:30:xx which in the runnners world means that the goal was unfortunately not achieved. I still think about this race as a milestone and the next milestone I tackled was improving my 5k time. In the beginning the goal was to run below 20 minutes. Which took me some time to achieve. And at time I got to know my now trainer Willhelm Lilge who also trains Andreas Vojta, the best active runner in Austria. Using his plans I was able to achieve 18:45 for the 5k which was one of the biggest achievements so far in my running career.

## Part VI: Lessons Learned

The biggest lessons I learned from running is first of all that there is always another race. You can have a terrible race and still be very good in your next race. Second of all, if you ahve a good race or even a bad race. Nobody cares the next day which on one hadn is really good but on the other is remakes you feel more balanced I think this is a lesson you can transfer to life because we always think oh, what will my dada say will my mum think of that what will my friends say or even the neighbour ? Can I approach this girl? What will everyone think? But in the end, all of these thoughts are useless and and in the end winning is done by doing and not by procrastination. The next thing I want to highlight again is the 'how bad do you want it?' mentality. I think that we are given a crazy potential and that we decie not to pursue much of that. Most people are not willing to put in the work to acheive anything so they are not even able to identify if they are talengted in things. Obviously there is a genetic component to running and I will never run as fast as Andreas Vojta or anybody of these people, but I can run much faster than I initially thought.

## Conclusion

Reflecting on my running journey as a whole I think that in the beginning i gave much to the nutrition and to thethe training and too little to the mental aspect. Doing this now for nearly 5-6 years I hink that the mental component especially, in the long run wheen the gains slow down massively ais the most important componeent. My future running goals consist of the following aims. I still have not beaten 40 minutes for the 10k and I still want to run below 1:30 for the half-marathon, one of the races coming up now i s the luxembourg ing night marayhon where I will participate in the half maratohn. ADvices for tothers who start their own running journey. GO and DO some rns. I would suggest getting a basic running plan, do not run the same distance all the time because your gains will stop after some time and do a rest week every third week. Incoporate inter val training and most importantly have fun. Enjoy the heat the cold and think about life and how good the first bite of bread or the drop of water after a long run is. This will help you to see your life in a much more balanced way.
